According to a new study, dinosaurs got high on hallucinogenic mushrooms and
they might have done it on a regular basis.

The base of this new study lies on the discovery on a impeccably preserved amber
fossil that contains the oldest specimen of grass ever to be uncovered by man.
The grass is a whopping 100-million years old and it is actually grass with a
bit of a very special fungus of the ergot type on top.

The piece of amber with the precious grass in it was found inside the amber
mines in Burma by German Paleontologist Joerg Wunderlich. Millions of years ago,
the region of Burma was where Sauropods used to live.

Wunderlich said that when he first saw the grass in amber assumed that it was
just a piece of fossilized flower and it sent it to the lab. Dr. George Poinar,
a paleo-entomologist, recognized the plant as being one of the most ancient
grass on Earth and on top of it he identified a fungus called ergot. Ergot
typically grows on rye and from it LSD gets made.

Dr. Poinar couldn’t say what effects this particular fungus had on dinosaurs,
but he did say that we could look at the effects the fungus have on birds and
lizards today, which is quite a strong one. He continued:

But whether this occurred in dinosaurs, we just don’t know. We don’t know how
much they would have had to eat.

Any animal or birds that eats this fungus will get high from it, so it is safe
to assume that dinosaurs got high after consuming plants infested with the ergot
fungus.

The particular prehistoric ergot fungus was identified as being Palaeoclaviceps
parasiticus, a distant, but similar relative to the current Claviceps, the
present ergot fungus. This modern fungus grows on rye and wheat and it is
believed that the production of this fungus is the plant’s self-defense
mechanism. The fungus gives the plant a bitter taste, which deters animals and
birds from eating it.

Around 1,000 compounds have been derived from this particular fungus, some of
which are drugs such as LSD.